A chatbot (also known as a talkbot, chatterbot, Bot, IM bot, interactive agent, or Artificial Conversational Entity) is a computer program or an artificial intelligence which conducts a conversation via auditory or textual methods. Such programs are often designed to convincingly simulate how a human would behave as a conversational partner, thereby passing the Turing test. Chatbots are typically used in dialog systems for various practical purposes including customer service or information acquisition. Some chatterbots use sophisticated natural language processing systems, but many simpler systems scan for keywords within the input, then pull a reply with the most matching keywords, or the most similar wording pattern, from a database.

The term "ChatterBot" was originally coined by Michael Mauldin (creator of the first Verbot, Julia) in 1994 to describe these conversational programs.Today, most chatbots are either accessed via virtual assistants such as Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa, via messaging apps such as Facebook Messenger or WeChat, or via individual organizations' apps and websites. Chatbots can be classified into usage categories such as conversational commerce (e-commerce via chat), analytics, communication, customer support, design, developer tools, education, entertainment, finance, food, games, health, HR, marketing, news, personal, productivity, shopping, social, sports, travel and utilities.
Background
In 1950, Alan Turing's famous article "Computing Machinery and Intelligence" was published, which proposed what is now called the Turing test as a criterion of intelligence. This criterion depends on the ability of a computer program to impersonate a human in a real-time written conversation with a human judge, sufficiently well that the judge is unable to distinguish reliably—on the basis of the conversational content alone—between the program and a real human. The notoriety of Turing's proposed test stimulated great interest in Joseph Weizenbaum's program ELIZA, published in 1966, which seemed to be able to fool users into believing that they were conversing with a real human. However Weizenbaum himself did not claim that ELIZA was genuinely intelligent, and the Introduction to his paper presented it more as a debunking exercise:

[In] artificial intelligence ... machines are made to behave in wondrous ways, often sufficient to dazzle even the most experienced observer. But once a particular program is unmasked, once its inner workings are explained ... its magic crumbles away; it stands revealed as a mere collection of procedures ... The observer says to himself "I could have written that". With that thought he moves the program in question from the shelf marked "intelligent", to that reserved for curios ... The object of this paper is to cause just such a re-evaluation of the program about to be "explained". Few programs ever needed it more.

ELIZA's key method of operation (copied by chatbot designers ever since) involves the recognition of cue words or phrases in the input, and the output of corresponding pre-prepared or pre-programmed responses that can move the conversation forward in an apparently meaningful way (e.g. by responding to any input that contains the word 'MOTHER' with 'TELL ME MORE ABOUT YOUR FAMILY').Thus an illusion of understanding is generated, even though the processing involved has been merely superficial. ELIZA showed that such an illusion is surprisingly easy to generate, because human judges are so ready to give the benefit of the doubt when conversational responses are capable of being interpreted as "intelligent".

Interface designers have come to appreciate that humans' readiness to interpret computer output as genuinely conversational—even when it is actually based on rather simple pattern-matching—can be exploited for useful purposes. Most people prefer to engage with programs that are human-like, and this gives chatbot-style techniques a potentially useful role in interactive systems that need to elicit information from users, as long as that information is relatively straightforward and falls into predictable categories. Thus, for example, online help systems can usefully employ chatbot techniques to identify the area of help that users require, potentially providing a "friendlier" interface than a more formal search or menu system. This sort of usage holds the prospect of moving chatbot technology from Weizenbaum's "shelf ... reserved for curios" to that marked "genuinely useful computational methods".

Development
The classic historic early chatbots are ELIZA (1966) and PARRY (1972).More recent notable programs include A.L.I.C.E., Jabberwacky and D.U.D.E (Agence Nationale de la Recherche and CNRS 2006). While ELIZA and PARRY were used exclusively to simulate typed conversation, many chatbots now include functional features such as games and web searching abilities. In 1984, a book called The Policeman's Beard is Half Constructed was published, allegedly written by the chatbot Racter (though the program as released would not have been capable of doing so).

One pertinent field of AI research is natural language processing. Usually, weak AI fields employ specialized software or programming languages created specifically for the narrow function required. For example, A.L.I.C.E. uses a markup language called AIML, which is specific to its function as a conversational agent, and has since been adopted by various other developers of, so called, Alicebots. Nevertheless, A.L.I.C.E. is still purely based on pattern matching techniques without any reasoning capabilities, the same technique ELIZA was using back in 1966. This is not strong AI, which would require sapience and logical reasoning abilities.

Jabberwacky learns new responses and context based on real-time user interactions, rather than being driven from a static database. Some more recent chatbots also combine real-time learning with evolutionary algorithms that optimise their ability to communicate based on each conversation held. Still, there is currently no general purpose conversational artificial intelligence, and some software developers focus on the practical aspect, information retrieval.

Chatbot competitions focus on the Turing test or more specific goals. Two such annual contests are the Loebner Prize and The Chatterbox Challenge (offline since 2015, materials can still be found from web archives).

According to Forrester (2015), AI will replace 16 percent of American jobs by the end of the decade.Chatbots have been used in applications such as customer service, sales and product education. However, a study conducted by Narrative Science in 2015 found that 80 percent of their respondents believe AI improves worker performance and creates jobs.[citation needed]

Application
See also: Virtual assistant

Aeromexico airline chatbot running on Facebook Messenger, March 2018
Messaging apps
Many companies' chatbots run on messaging apps like Facebook Messenger (since 2016), WeChat (since 2013),WhatsApp, LiveChat, Kik, Slack, Line, Telegram, or simply via SMS. They are used for B2C customer service, sales and marketing.

In 2016, Facebook Messenger allowed developers to place chatbots on their platform. There were 30,000 bots created for Messenger in the first six months, rising to 100,000 by September 2017.

Since September 2017, this has also been as part of a pilot program on WhatsApp. Airlines KLM and Aeroméxico both announced their participation in the testing;both airlines had previously launched customer services on the Facebook Messenger platform.

The bots usually appear as one of the user's contacts, but can sometimes act as participants in a group chat.

Many banks and insurers, media and e-commerce companies, airlines and hotel chains, retailers, health care providers, government entities and restaurant chains have used chatbots to answer simple questions, increase customer engagement,for promotion, and to offer additional ways to order from them.

A 2017 study showed 4% of companies used chatbots.According to a 2016 study, 80% of businesses said they intended to have one by 2020.

As part of company apps and websites
Previous generations of chatbots were present on company websites, e.g. Ask Jenn from Alaska Airlines which debuted in 2008 or Expedia's virtual customer service agent which launched in 2011.The newer generation of chatbots includes IBM Watson-powered "Rocky", introduced in February 2017 by the New York City-based e-commerce company Rare Carat to provide information to prospective diamond buyers.

Company internal platforms
Other companies explore ways they can use chatbots internally, for example for Customer Support, Human Resources, or even in Internet-of-Things (IoT) projects. Overstock.com, for one, has reportedly launched a chatbot named Mila to automate certain simple yet time-consuming processes when requesting for a sick leave.Other large companies such as Lloyds Banking Group, Royal Bank of Scotland, Renault and Citroën are now using automated online assistants instead of call centres with humans to provide a first point of contact. A SaaS chatbot business ecosystem has been steadily growing since the F8 Conference when Zuckerberg unveiled that Messenger would allow chatbots into the app.

Toys
Chatbots have also been incorporated into devices not primarily meant for computing such as toys.

Hello Barbie is an Internet-connected version of the doll that uses a chatbot provided by the company ToyTalk,which previously used the chatbot for a range of smartphone-based characters for children.These characters' behaviors are constrained by a set of rules that in effect emulate a particular character and produce a storyline.

IBM's Watson computer has been used as the basis for chatbot-based educational toys for companies such as CogniToys intended to interact with children for educational purposes.

Chatbot creation
The process of creating a chatbot follows a pattern similar to the development of a web page or a mobile app. It can be divided into Design, Building, Analytics and Maintenance.

Design
The chatbot design is the process that defines the interaction between the user and the chatbot.The chatbot designer will define the chatbot personality, the questions that will be asked to the users, and the overall interaction.It can be viewed as a subset of the conversational design. In order to speed up this process, designers can use dedicated chatbot design tools, that allow for immediate preview, team collaboration and video export.An important part of the chatbot design is also centered around user testing. User testing can be performed following the same principles that guide the user testing of graphical interfaces.

Building
The process of building a chatbot can be divided into two main tasks: understanding the user's intent and producing the correct answer. The first task involves understanding the user input. In order to properly understand a user input in a free text form, a Natural Language Processing Engine can be used.The second task may involve different approaches depending on the type of the response that the chatbot will generate.

Analytics
The usage of the chatbot can be monitored in order to spot potential flaws or problems. It can also provide useful insights that can improve the final user experience.

Maintenance
To keep chatbots up to speed with changing company products and services, traditional chatbot development platforms require ongoing maintenance. This can either be in the form of an ongoing service provider or for larger enterprises in the form of an in-house chatbot training team.To eliminate these costs, some startups are experimenting with Artificial Intelligence to develop self-learning chatbots, particularly in Customer Service applications.

Chatbot development platforms
The process of building, testing and deploying chatbots can be done on cloud based chatbot development platforms offered by cloud Platform as a Service (PaaS) providers such as Yekaliva, Oracle Cloud Platform, SnatchBot and IBM Watson.These cloud platforms provide Natural Language Processing, Artificial Intelligence and Mobile Backend as a Service for chatbot development.

APIs
There are many APIs available for building your own chatbots, such as AARC.

Malicious chatbots are frequently used to fill chat rooms with spam and advertisements, by mimicking human behaviour and conversations or to entice people into revealing personal information, such as bank account numbers. They are commonly found on Yahoo! Messenger, Windows Live Messenger, AOL Instant Messenger and other instant messaging protocols. There has also been a published report of a chatbot used in a fake personal ad on a dating service's website.

[7:20 PM, 2/23/2022] Rajat: Graphic Era Hill University

course available
all courses
COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 
CIVIL ENGINEERING
ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
MANAGEMENT
HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES 
COMMERCE 
COMPUTER APPLICATIONS 
ARTS AND DESIGN 
ALLIED SCIENCES
PHARMACY 
MEDIA AND MASS COMMUNICATION 
AGRICULTURE SCIENCE 
LAW 
HOTEL AND HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT 
ARCHITECTURE AND PLANNING 
ASTROLOGY 
NURSING .






	University name
Graphic Era Hill University.

About Graphic Era 
Estabilished 
Graphic Era was founded in 1993 by Dr. Kamal Ghanshala and started 
with undergraduate programs in core engineering and allied sciences 
It is situated in Dehradun, Uttarakhand
In 2008 the institute was accorded the status of deemed university.
It is one of the best private university of Uttarakhand.


Motto
transformig dreams into reality.



Location Address
Road Society Area, Clement Town, Dehradun, Uttarakhand 248002

Campus
Dehradun haldwani and bhimtal.

Afflilications
UGC,AIU,NAAC,MHRD.

website
gehu.ac.in


Animation and design
The program has a universal appeal as it caters to both theoretical 
and practical aspects by enhancing creative and innovative skills as 
well as critical thinking. We train students as per contemporary 
advancement through a very robust curriculum which is inspired by 
global art and design highlights with Drawing, Painting, Graphic design, 
2D and 3D Animation, Gaming, Filmmaking, VFX, Camera, and Photography.


Animation and design Eligibility Criteria
10+2 (any stream) with 50% Marks.

Animation fees
Around 3.16 lakhs.
The fee structure is also based on their 12 class performance .

Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences has the objective to 
prepare students for multiple careers fields and help them to flourish 
intellectually. This Department offers five study programs at 
undergraduate level; BA Economics (Hons) and BA Psychology (Hons) , 
BA Political Science( Hons) , BA English ( Hons) and BA.

Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences fees
Around 3.02 lakhs.
The fee structure is also based on their 12 class performance .

Commerce
The School of Commerce was established in 2012 with an aim to create 
world class professionals in commerce domain, the programs in commerce
 equip graduates with technical and managerial skills necessary to 
understand and participate in modern business world and allow them to
 achieve the highest level of success in their professional career. 
The purpose of the programs is to provide a solid foundation in finance 
& accounts, economics, quantitative methods through exposing them to multi
-disciplinary knowledge and skills. The School focuses on cultivating and 
nurturing various skills on decision making, leadership and management 
skills within the business arena and the programs are designed to prepare 
students for various managerial position in finance and account domain in 
the industry.

Commerce fees
Around 1.25 lakh per year.
The fee structure is also based on their 12 class performance .


Computer application and it
The Department of Computer Applications is one of the pioneering departments of 
the University that is committed to imparting quality education in the 
emergent sub-fields of IT. The students are provided with plentiful 
opportunities to develop their organizational skills along with subject 
knowledge. The teaching methodology is result oriented as the students 
attend lectures, seminars, workshops and professional tours in order to 
realize their domain properly so that they may innovate and achieve new
 heights.

computer application and it fees 
2.65 lakh per year.
The fee structure is also based on their 12 class performance .

B.tech Computer Science And Engineering (CSE)
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering at GEHU aspires to 
equip its students with the latest technical skills in order to cope well 
with the trends and the needs of the industry. Our academic curricula is 
tailored and designed to cater to the requirements of industrial deployment
and research activities. Besides the rigorous academic schedule, heavy 
focus is laid on online courses like MOOC that enable the students to 
become part of various premiere universities in the world.

Faculty
dr.mahantesh pattanshetti
dr.ashok kumar sahho
mr a b desai
dr rakesh patra.



Eligiblity of b- tech 
10+2 with 75% marks.

Average package 
4 lacs/year.

Companies visited the university
around 150 national and multinational companies , including Infosys ,Wipro , TCS, and many more .

Student placed evrey year get placement every year
around 1700 students get placed every year.

Which companies visit Graphic Era University,  for placements.
Companies like Adobe, Amazon, HSBC, ZeeNews, IBM, Wipro, Yamaha, Vivo, Samsung, ICICI Bank, EY, Deloitte and Accenture frequently visit the campus for offering placements.


Can I get direct admission in Graphic Era university
Direct Admission In Graphic Era University (GEU) - Deemed University. Graphic Era University (GEU) - Deemed University offers various courses some of them are listed below. You can have opportunity to avail direct admission in Graphic Era University (GEU) - Deemed University in these courses listed below.

Are admissions open in Graphic Era university
Open up the Graphic Era University (GEU) website namely @ geu. ac. in. Seek out the online application form for receiving Graphic Era University Admission 2021- 2021 for any course offered by the Graphic Era University (GEU).

Scholarship Criteria
Graphic Era awards merit or academic scholarships to deserving candidates every academic year, based on their performance and qualifying test scores. - If the candidate fails to meet the criteria, the scholarship will be discontinued only for that semester.

Can I get admission in graphic era without jee.
Admission Procedure is based on Merit prepared on basis of (10+2)% / JEE Main Score. There is no other exam through which you can get seat in Graphic Era Hill University, Dehradun for B.E/B. Tech course.

Difference between graphic era hill and deemed university
Primary Difference lies in GEHU, being a private university and GEU, a deemed university. Graphic Era is Deemed University recognised by the UGC and awarded NAAC Grade A and NIRF Rank 104 All India- Engineering Category. ... Primary Difference lies in GEHU, being a private university and GEU, a deemed university.

Highest package of Graphic Era University
In the placement drive of 2021, more than 2400 offers have been provided by over 200 recruiters.


Which Graphic Era university is best
Graphic Era University, Dehradun has got Visionary Edupreneur of India award by Pranab Mukherjee. Ranked 1st among top private in Uttarakhand survey by Dainik Bhaskar. As per NIRF University ranking, GEU got 97 rank among Top Universities.
o take up higher studies in CS.

Owner chairman of graphic era
dr.kamal ghansala sir.

Contact no phone no of graphic era
1800 270 1280.

Btech computer science engineering cse
The B. Tech in Computer Science and Engineering aims to develop graduates that are not only well versed with traditional computing approaches but are also experienced in modern tools, technologies, and diverse applications.
Eligibility	10+2 (PCM)
Admission Procedure	Merit prepared on basis of (10+2)% / JEE Main Score
For Provisional Admission*	Seats to be allocated based on projected scores(XII), calculated basis candidate's X percentage - only meritorious students .

B- tech cse honors courses available .
B.TECH COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING (HONS.) WITH SPECIALIZATION IN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE & MACHINE LEARNING
B.TECH COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING (HONS.) WITH SPECIALIZATION IN CLOUD COMPUTING
B.TECH COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING (HONS.) WITH SPECIALIZATION IN CYBER SECURITY
B.TECH COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING (HONS.) WITH SPECIALIZATION IN BLOCKCHAIN
B.TECH COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING (HONS.) WITH SPECIALIZATION IN INFORMATION SECURITY AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
B.TECH COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING (HONS.) WITH SPECIALIZATION IN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND ROBOT BUILDING
B.TECH COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING (HONS.) WITH SPECIALIZATION IN DEEP LEARNING & ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE .

Management
Founded in 2011, School of Management has persistently built on its unique strength of imparting high-quality management education through pedagogic innovations, encouraging business-academia interface and emphasizing on its twin objective of influencing practice and promoting value based growth.
At School of Management, students are treated as managers under training. Training is imparted round-the-clock, seven days a week. Projects and assignments are given utmost importance and students learn on the job. Application-oriented knowledge garnered in the lecture halls, is applied to industry assignments. The faculty spares no effort to make the student’s mind razor sharp, so they make their mark in the corporate world.
The Unique Selling Proposition of the department is a very strong industry-academia interface. Corporate honchos regularly visit the department and share vital industry inputs with students. As a consequence, the students gain a sound understanding of the fundamentals of management and various aspects of management practice, as well as practical experience in a real-life context. They also acquire the skills that a good manager needs, including the ability to apply critical analysis to management issues, and an awareness of the responsibilities of managers in an economic, social and environmental context.

Number of buses 
More than 60+ buses are their for the students which runs on more than 3 times a day .

Admission in graphic era
10+2(any stream ) on the basis of 10+2 marks.